.. |beta|   unicode:: U+003B2 .. GREEK SMALL LETTER BETA

.. _execution:
===================
 Running the model
===================

The primary way to run TCRM is at the command line (A graphical
interface is under development). Command line arguments are passed to
the main ``tcrm.py`` script for defining the path to the configuration
file, as well as enabling verbose output and/or debugging.

Command line arguments
======================

 -c file, --config file   Path to a configuration file
 -v, --verbose            If given, then logging messages will be printed to the console
 -d, --debug              In the case that execution results in an exception, allow the 
                          Python stack to call into the stack trace (through 
                          implementation of a custom hook script). 

Examples
========

Make sure ``python`` is in your system path, then from the base
directory, call the ``tcrm.py`` script, with the configuration file
option included. For example, to run the example simulation::

    python tcrm.py -c example/port_hedland.ini

The model will print a simple progress indicator to the console to
show that the model is working.

If the ``-v`` option is included, then all logging messages will be
printed to the console. The level of logging detail is set in the
configuration file.

Running on a parallel system
============================

As a stochastic model, TCRM can generate massive numbers of synthetic
events, which implies run times can become very long. If TCRM is
installed on a multiprocessor system (either a shared memory or
distributed memory system), then the workload can be shared across the
workload. TCRM uses the :mod:`pypar` module to enable multi-threaded
processing. Instructions for installing :mod:`pypar` are given on the
`Pypar website <http://github.com/daleroberts/pypar>`_.

Pypar is built around the MPI library, and so uses the ``mpirun``
command to execute the model across multiple processors. As an example
the following command will execute across 16 processors::

    mpirun -np 16 python tcrm.py -c example/port_hedland.ini

Running across multiple processors means that logging messages from
each individual processor can get mixed up with others. To avoid this,
a separate log file is created for each thread, and output to the
console is suppressed (even if the ``-v`` or ``--verbose`` option is
given at the command line).
